[Music]
what happens when you quit drinking
coffee for a month
Coffee is a deliciously complex drink it
has been the subject of many studies
where scientists have tried to find out
how it affects our health some people
argue that a hot cup of java in the
morning has only a positive impact on
our bodies helping us to kick-start our
day
others however warn us that coffee
consumption may increase the risk of
chronic disease in the future but the
truth as usual lies somewhere in between
you will be surprised at the changes
that might happen to your body if you
refuse to consume coffee for 30 days to
prove this
we've prepared and held an experiment
especially for you
as a bonus we will show you what a cup
of coffee looks like in different
countries but first here is the
experiment and notes of the girl who
took part in it I've been starting my
day with coffee for a couple of years
now and I can't imagine my morning
without it still I've been wondering
what would happen if I quit
I haven't found any definitive
information online so I decided to check
for myself and now I'm sharing my
impressions with the Brightside viewers
week 1 the first day was the hardest I
couldn't concentrate and only wanted to
sleep throughout the week I tried
different treats green or fruit flavored
tea
chicory fruit and nut salads and some of
them helped all that happened because
caffeine is an addictive substance and
it affects our brain enormous Lee since
the chemistry of the brain changes it
starts to demand larger amounts of
caffeine to get the desired result
having stopped consuming coffee I didn't
give that result in my brain but I
managed to feed it with the minimum that
are required by drinking tea and chicory
week 2 I felt an enormous desire to
drink coffee at the beginning of the
week and almost broke
chicory didn't help anymore but I
resisted the temptation for which I was
proud at this stage the body came to its
minimal and that is why there was no use
of consuming chicory it is actually the
hardest of all stages it's possible to
get such symptoms as a fatigue
headaches and even mood swings week
three I started to find it much easier
to fall asleep at night without tossing
and turning up to an hour in bed that's
a very nice novelty I must say that is
because a caffeine boost lasts for
approximately six hours and if you drink
coffee less than six hours before going
to sleep you will end up lying in bed
wide-awake
as a result in the morning you will feel
tired for which you will need an extra
dose of caffeine the cycle continues
that is why when you quit drinking
coffee your body adjusts to a lifestyle
without any caffeine and your sleep
becomes deeper and better week for
getting up for work became easier - I
need to wake up at 6 a.m. to do
everything but I used to hit the snooze
button at least three times now I began
feeling much better about getting out of
bed to do things though many sources
claim that coffee is the very source of
antioxidants it's not a complete truth
all caffeinated drinks have a bad impact
on your health in the long term that is
why when quitting consuming them and
shifting to drinking more water you
start to get more natural energy which
results in better health better sleep
and a better look
what the experiment gave me better sleep
now
I sleep soundly and feel rested after
six hours just that is enough to cut
down on coffee for me more energy it
turns out a rested body doesn't need
coffee to wake up I also noticed I've
become calmer in general
moreover the productivity has increased
due to not spending as much time
enjoying another cup of coffee can you
guess how much time we spend in lines at
coffee shops better looks healthy sleep
made me look fresh and I got rid of the
circles under my eyes moreover my teeth
look much whiter and healthier cleaner
environment can you imagine how much
trash coffee consuming produces now I
feel that I care about the environment
and help it to a small extent better
mood
many of us feel grumpy until the first
sip of coffee not consuming caffeine
erases those ups and downs and as a
result I have a good mood always okay
almost always no more addiction
[Music]
I confess I let myself go and drink
coffee in two different places into two
days following the end of the experiment
and you know what it was nothing special
at all how could I like coffee before
the most important thing it turned out
it wasn't coffee I loved so much
it was the ritual of brewing and
drinking it in the morning or at work
you can easily replace it with some
other more useful routine can you think
of any please share your thoughts in the
comment section below the video it's
just that we need our little pleasures
in our daily routines my aim is to think
about more of them for myself
flowers ginger and honey tea whatever
hit the like button if you are already
one of those who lead a healthy
lifestyle PS by the way I don't want to
quit coffee all together
let it be not a habit but an occasion
I'll keep drinking it once or twice a
week and only good brews because in
drinking coffee with occasional small
cups some benefits like increased
alertness and improved memory functions
are still there
so did you like the experiment if so hit
the like button and we would be glad to
hear the results of your staying away
from coffee for a month you will share
them with us won't you and here's our
bonus what a cup of coffee looks like in
different countries almost every country
and culture has its unique ways of
brewing it to perfection we did some
research and picked out just a few of
them and they are quite fascinating egg
coffee Vietnam the fundamental
ingredients here are egg yolk condensed
milk sugar and hot coffee lapland coffee
finland a local kind of cheese is placed
in the cup before being covered with the
coffee espresso Italy the classic recipe
with an added slice of lemon the lemon
should be flattened with a spoon against
the side or bottom of the cup first
lagrima Argentina just a couple of drops
of strong coffee are added to some
frothy milk it might be more accurate
describe this as milk with coffee rather
than the other way around
bonbon coffee Spain this is an espresso
but with added condensed milk mixing the
latter with milk produces something
special
spiced coffee maracas grinding a mixture
of spices including sesame seeds black
pepper and nutmeg together with ordinary
coffee beans produces an unusual but
very strong drink coffee with tea Hong
Kong this mixture of coffee and milk tea
leaves a strong impression right from
the first sip it's made using four
servings of black tea pepper condensed
milk in two shots of coffee frappe
grease
coffee ice cream condensed milk and some
ice water produced the tasty delight
known as a frappe far easier Germany
this was invented in Germany to hide the
presence of alcohol at family gatherings
a portion of rum is hidden underneath a
generous amount of whipped cream
together with the coffee cafe tuba
Senegal during the roasting process
Guinea pepper is added to the mixture
the drink itself is brewed in the same
way as ordinary coffee coffee with
garlic and honey Turkey this is a
popular drink in Turkey sometimes
referred to as the old mores recipe
coffee with orange Jamaica in addition
to the slice of orange Jamaican coffee
also includes a traditional portion of
rum to make for an exciting and tasty
drink
don't forget to hit the like button if
it reaches 50,000 likes we promise to
make a video that will show you the
attitude towards coffee in different
countries click subscribe to join us on
the bright side